Let's go ahead and look at the Makefile setup which is the next step in our journey
to make this local environment able to be running dockerize containers.
So what I'm going to do is move over to my shell.
From here, I'm going to run a command that allows me to check out
a template that has many of the tools that I normally use on our projects.
So I do a git clone, here we go.
Now, I'm going to cd into this my repo directory,
and one of the things I'm going to do is look at something called a Makefile.
So let's go ahead and look at this LS command here.
From here, if I do ls, this is too small.
Let's go ahead and look at the contents of this directory.
One of the things that's in this directory is something called a Makefile,
and a Makefile has been around for decades.
What it is, is really as a convention that the unix shell is aware of
that allows you to put a bunch of commands in it and run those commands.
It's really a very convenient way to set up an order of operations in your project.
So if we look at this Makefile, and I open it up with Vim,
you can see that there's several different steps here or directives.
There's a setup directive here at the top,
and inside here is where I would create a virtual environment.
We've already done that so I can skip that step.
Next, we can look at this install, pip install.
What this does is allows us to actually refer to
a list of packages that will be installed in the requirement file.
So every time I update my project,
I just need to run make install.
Next is there's a test directive.
So if I wanted to test my application using the pytest framework or some other framework,
I would just put in what the commands are there.
Then finally, I have this lint directory here,
and what this lint directory does is allows me to locally test
different packages and make sure that they're syntactically correct.
I also could go and I could add a Python black setup
which would essentially rearranged my code
so that's exactly the format that complies with
the Python Standard for writing software which is PEP 8.
So I'm going to go ahead and look at this requirement file.
Let's make sure that the packages in here are what we would like.
So we have pytest, pylint, jupyter,
pytest-cov, pandas, nbval, click, flask, requests.
So a bunch of different packages in my project, this looks about right.
Now I'm going to go through and I'm going to run "make install."
We see what happens here is that,
it goes through and it runs that pip command for me,
so I don't have to make sure I run exactly that.
It's fairly tedious command.
Every single time we want to do an update,
I just run make install.
Once that's running, that'll allow me to have access
to the other packages and the other test routines that are set up in a Makefile.
So the next step after this would be to do a makelint which will run the pylint command.
So I go ahead and run that. Say makelint.
It'll go through here and look at the packages that are set up in my repo.
Everything is passed.
Now to test out exactly how that lint works,
one thing I can do is I can actually go to this command line tool here,
and I can actually intentionally add some broken code.
So if I go to let's say this first part here,
and I add "this is broken" and I just make a syntactically incorrect line.
Because that's not a correct Python statement, I can save this,
run the lint command again and it will verify that in fact, there is a problem.
You can see here it's this cli.py file has got a problem so we need to fix it.
So if I now go back to that file, I can fix it.
Go remove this broken line, save it, re-run the lint,
and now I'm able to actually verify that the source code is correct.
So this is perfect.
Now we have working Python environment.
We have Makefile setup.
We can move on to our next step.